Previously, we
compared data types to
the categories we have for
different ingredients
we use when cooking,
like vegetables or meat.
Some of these
categories we use for
data types are the string,
float, integer,
Boolean, and list.
Now, let's make
another comparison. When
working in the kitchen,
we also use
storage containers.
These containers can hold
a lot of different things.
After one meal, a
container might hold rice,
and after another, it could
hold something
different, like pasta.
In a similar way, in
Python, we have variables.
A variable is a container
that stores data.
To create a variable,
you need a name for it. Then,
you add an equals sign
and then an object
to store in it.
Creating a variable is
often called assignment.
The best practice for
naming variables is to make
the names relevant to what
they're being used for.
Let's use a variable
to store a device ID.
We'll name our
variable device_ID, add
the equals sign, and then
assign it a value of h32rb17.
Because the data type for
this variable is a string,
we'll place that value in
quotation marks.
Let's run the code.
Our variable is now
saved into Python.
The purpose of
creating variables
is to use them
later in the code.
Using variables can also be
referred to as "calling" them.
To call a variable,
you type its name.
This tells Python to use
the object that the
variable contains.
Let's add to the code we've just
written and call a variable.
Let's just have it
print the variable.
To do this, we use the
print function and
ask it to print the value
stored in the
device ID variable.
When using a variable
in our print function,
we don't use quotation marks.
This time, when we run
it, something happens.
Python prints h32rb17
to the screen.
Let's add one more line of
code to demonstrate
the difference
between printing a variable
and printing a string.
We'll ask Python to print
a string that contains
another device ID:
m50pi31.
Because this is string
data and not a variable,
we place it in quotation marks.
Now, let's run the code
and see the results.
It executes both
print statements.
The first reads the
variable and prints
the value it contains: h32rb17.
And the second reads the specified
string and prints m50pi31.
But if we could use
the string directly,
why do we need variables?
Well, we often use
variables to simplify
our code or make it
cleaner and easier to read.
Or if we needed a very
long string or number,
storing it in a variable
would let us use
it throughout our code
without typing it all out.
In the previous example,
the variable stored
string data, but
variables can store a
variety of data types.
Variables have the data type
of the object currently
storing them.
If you're unsure about
the data type stored
inside of a variable,
you can use the type function.
The type function is
a function that returns the
data type of its input.
Let's use the type
function in Python.
We'll start by creating
our variable. Then, we'll
add a line of code that
includes the type function.
This line asks Python to
tell us the data type of
the device ID variable
and to assign this to a new
variable called data_type.
After this, we can
print the data_type
variable to the screen.
Perfect! Python tells us
that the value that device
ID contains a string.
When working with variables,
it's important to keep
track of their data types.
If you don't, you could
get a type error.
A type error is
an error that results from
using the wrong data type.
For example, if you try to
add a number and a string,
you will get a type error
because Python cannot combine
those two data types together.
It can only add two
strings or two numbers.
Let's demonstrate a type error.
First, we'll reuse
our device ID variable that
stores a string value.
Then, we'll define
another variable
called number and assign
an integer value to it.
Let's add a print statement
that outputs the sum of
these variables, and
then we'll run this.
We ended up with an error
because we cannot add
a string to a number.
Let's cover one more topic
related to variables.
Earlier, we mentioned how
variables are like containers.
What they hold can change.
After we define a variable,
we can always change the
object inside of it.
This is called reassignment.
Reassigning a variable is very
similar to assigning it
in the first place.
Let's try this out and
reassign a variable.
We'll start by assigning
the same string of
h32rb17 to our
variable device_ID.
We will also include a line
of code to print this variable.
Now, let's try
reassigning the variable.
We type this variable's
name, add an equals sign,
and then add the new object.
In this case, we'll
use the string
n73ab07 as the new device ID.
We'll also ask Python to
print the variable again.
Let's see what happens
when we run this.
Python prints two
lines of output.
The first print statement
came before reassignment,
so it first prints the
string of h32rb17.
But the second print statement
came after it changed.
That's why the second
output to the screen
is the string n73ab07.
With this code, we
reassigned a variable
with a string value to
another string value,
but it's also
possible to reassign
a variable to a value
of another data type.
For instance, we can
reassign a variable
with a string value
to an integer value.
Variables are an
essential part of
Python, and as we progress
through this course,
you'll become more
familiar with them.